# DG TRADE-INS
## By: Shaevaun Morlis
### Date: 23 January 2021
## Inception
Throughout the years, videogames have become digitalized, prohibiting customers to exchange their game for monetary value. When a digital copy is purchased, the players cannot claim any ownership as they would with a physical version. Instead, the gamers are awarded with a code that enables them to play. Essentially, this technological advancement has denied customers the satisfaction of procuring a new game at a discount or receiving credit for returning a used one. I plan to create a software that can resolve this issue called DG Trade-Ins. 
## Data Phase
The first feature of DG Trade-Ins would enable the player to trade in their digital code at a lower value to the platform it was purchased on, such as Microsoft, PlayStation or Nintendo. The individual will then gain a monetary value/credit that can be used towards a new purchase from that specific company. This is a win-win situation for these corporations as well because this credit will be locked into their business. The company can resell their code at the original price without having to formulate new codes for new buyers.
##
The second feature that this software consists of is a portal for individuals to swap their digital games for a different one of the same value from another customer. This permits players to acquire a new game and surrender their old game without spending money. Although the feature is free, the player can only acquire the game they want if there is member that is willing to give up their game at same market value of their trade-in. This software will increase the wealth of these companies as more members will sign up to take advantage of this opportunity and it will increase customer satisfaction by allowing them to save money. 
## Programming Phase
Clients will be able to upload/transfer their game code to earn credit or swap for a different game. The games will be removed from cloud storage and will be added to DG Trade-Ins platform. The credit will be added to their respective accounts and can only be used with the same company for any future purchases. To process an exchange and determine the value, both players will have to accept. The software will be placed on the cloud for maximum storage and will be accessible through the gaming stores. This application software will require compliance from Microsoft, PlayStation, and Nintendo to authorize these transactions.
## Interface
The interface of DG Trade-Ins will consist of a “Home Screen” with a shopping cart option to upload the games. There will be an “Account” option to check the credit balance with the different companies. Additionally, it can be used to view swapping offers from other players. Furthermore, there will also be a “Portal” option to view games that other individuals have uploaded and comment or add matching offers to that game. The portal will also have a section in which users can add all the games that they want to switch.
## Plan of Action
The plan of action is to start by writing a code that will determine the value of these games. This code will also need to be able to execute trading in the digital code to respective company for credit. Additionally, it will accomplish the swapping feature of the program. I plan to create a website advertising the DG Trade-Ins brand demonstrating the features of this software. I will show the interfaces, Home Screen, About Us, Account, Portal, Forum and Checkout pages. This website will be on full display for Microsoft, Play Station or Nintendo to view and potentially make an offer to add into their gaming stores. 
