# Digital Trade/Swap Software
## By: Shaevaun Morlis
### Date: 15 January 2021
## Introduction
Videogames target a large portion of today’s society, without discretion to age, race, and gender. It is without a doubt that gamers will purchase multiple games in their lifetime. As a gamer myself, I can confirm that purchasing multiple games a year can become expensive. Years ago, when digital versions of games did not exist, customers had to rely on purchasing a physical disc of the game to be able to play. Overtime as their interest declined in the game, people were able to exchange their secondhand game for a new or used game. Additionally, they were able to sell their physical copy for the current market value of the game. I recognized the need of these players and created an additional online platform to assist these individuals. During my undergraduate years, I created a business website called Gamerswap in which I was the third party that enabled customers to share videogames because they were not receiving much value for their turn ins.
## Body
Throughout the years, videogames have become digitalized, prohibiting customers to trade in their game for monetary value. When a digital copy is purchased, the players cannot claim any ownership as they would with a physical version. Instead, the gamers are awarded with a code that enables them to play the game. Essentially, this technological advancement has denied customers the satisfaction of procuring a new game at a discount or receiving credit for returning a used game. I plan to create a software that can resolve this issue but first, lets examine the businesses that contain the games for customers to acquire.
##
There are a few gaming platforms in which digital or physical games can be purchased such as GameStop, The Microsoft Store, and The PlayStation Store. GameStop is originally known for purchasing physical games and trade-ins. It provides customers either cash or trade credit for unwanted physical games and accessories. GameStop has a system in place to determine the value of game trade-ins. The depreciation of these games is determined by physical scratches, how long the games have been released, and the popularity from sales. GameStop provides their own discounts and offers through customer subscriptions as well. GameStop owned hundreds of stores in the United States. However, with the change in the market to digital games, GameStop’s stock dropped and resulted in over a hundred store closures.
##
The Microsoft Store is another industry that enables players to purchase games. It makes it easy for gamers to try out a gaming membership like the Xbox game pass, find apps to download, browse a library of games, get information on discounts, and view trailers on newly released games. Customers must be signed into their personal profile to view appropriate gaming contents and the shopping cart. They can also filter their search results and add games to their wish list. The array of features provided by Microsoft store makes it a platform for other gaming brands like Sony or Nintendo to emulate. 
##
Furthermore, The PlayStation Store is an additional platform that PlayStation owners can utilize to acquire their games. They provide similar features as the Microsoft store where you can access the app from your console, smartphone, or web browser. PlayStation gamers have season passes, promotions, and savings as well. The purchased games are stored in an online library and are readily accessible at any time. Unfortunately, like the Microsoft Store, there is a limit on the number of games that can be stored. In order to purchase and download any additional games, players must uninstall a game to install a new one based on their hard drive space. Although the uninstalled game is no longer in the gamers’ library, they do not lose access to the game because they still possess the code.
## Conclusion
The features of these platforms limit the customers to the type of gaming experience that they can have. GameStop offers physical games and allows players to trade in their games to save money. On the other hand, the Microsoft and PlayStation stores provide digital games, do not allow trade-ins, and increases the customers’ expenses. Therefore, I plan to create a software that would allow gamers to trade in their digital copy games to save money. This software contains two features to give the gamers opportunities. The first feature would enable the player to sell their digital code at the market value to the platform it was purchased on, such as Microsoft or PlayStation. This would allow the individual to gain a monetary value/credit that can be used towards a new purchase. This is a win-win situation for the business as well. The company can reset the data on this code and sell it at the original price to a new customer without having to formulate new codes for new customers. The second feature that this software consists of is a portal for individuals to swap their digital games for a different game of the same value from another customer. The trade-in will be based on the market value of the game. This permits players to acquire a new game and surrender their old game without spending money. Although the feature is free, the gamer can only acquire the game they want if there is member that is willing to give up their game that has the same market value. This software will increase the wealth of these companies as more members will sign up to take advantage of this opportunity and it will increase customer satisfaction by allowing them to save money.
